# CIS183_Homework03_Program01

User starts on home page, where there is a list view of all the students. Each cell contains their first name, last name, and username. If the user clicks on a student cell that student is saved to SessionData and a bool from SessionData which dictates whether the AddStudent page fills out student data for the edit texts or not is set to true. Next, they will be taken to that students details page where it will show everything about a student given the student object (fname, lname, username, email, age, gpa, majorId) pulled from session data and information grabbed from a DatabaseHelper function which gathers all student info given a username. Major ID is converted to the major name using the class DatabaseHelper public function, which uses the id to find the matching major on the majors table which consists of majorId, major, and majorPrefix. The user can then chose to go back to the home page, or update the user from the details page. If the user presses the update button, they are taken to the AddStudent page where all the students data is filled out in their respective EditText's and the spinner for major prefix is properly selected to the right major, they also will not be able to edit the username. This is done by taking the students majorId and using it in the DatabaseHelper to select the respective majorPrefix that matches the id. If the user wants to add a major, they click the blue text "Add Major" under the major spinner. They will be taken to a seperate page to add a major name and major prefix. If the user inputs a major name that already exists or major prefix that already exists an error message will appear. This works even if all elements are lowercase, uppercase, a mix, and if there is more/no spaces in the characters. The user can also select to go back to the update page from the add major page. If the user adds a new unique major, they will be taken back to the AddStudent page and the major will now appear in the spinner. If while updating a student the user forgets to fill in an EditText, an error message will appear directing the user to ensure all textboxes are filled. If everything is in order and user updates the student, they will be taken back to the details page and view the corrected student details.

Returning to the home page, if the user wants to delete a student they have to simply press and hold on a student cell and it will disapear and be removed from the database and list view. If the user wants to add a student, they click on the add student button and are taken to a page with an EditText for fname, lname, email, age, gpa, username, and a spinner for a major. Just like when updating a student, they can add a new major if they wish. It is the same page as updating just dynamically generated based on whether the bool from SessionData is set to true or false. If not all textboxes are filled, an error will appear. If username created is not unique, an error will appear. If everything is in order, the student will be added to the database and all EditTexts will clear and the major spinner will be reset to position 0, allowing for many students to be added without having to get back to this page. If the user presses the back button they are taken to the home page.

If the user presses the search for student button, they are taken to a page with a EditText for fname, lname, username, email, age, minGpa, maxGpa, a spinner for the operator, and a spinner for the major. If the user does not want to consider major when filtering the list view full of students which each cell containing all the info about a student, they simply select the blank option. If the user does not want to consider gpa, they do not fill in anything for min or max gpa. If the user puts in a minGpa that is higher than maxGpa, an error will appear. If the student puts something in for minGpa and not maxGpa an error will appear and vice versa. The min and max gpa ensure a range of gpas are produced, and operators include >, <, <=, >=. (> means: gpa > minGpa and gpa < maxGpa, < means: gpa < maxGpa and gpa > minGpa, >= means: gpa >= minGpa and gpa <= maxGpa, <= means: gpa <= maxGpa and gpa >= minGpa) A user can chose whatever they want to filter by and search, making it so not everything has to be filled out. If the user wants to clear the filters, they go up to the red CLEAR text and press on it. Each time the user searches the list view is updated to the correct students given the filters, and each time the filters are cleared it is reset to show all of the students.

All of the data is persistant because it is all stored inside of the database. If the user closes the application and restarts it, their changed data will still be there. Each list view and spinner uses a custom cell and the list views have custom adapters. All pages follow a general style and is darker so it is easier on the eyes.
